---
layout: post
title: Everything That Remains
comments: true
categories: Books
published: false
---

Joshua Fields Millburn and Ryan Nicodemus are The Minimalists. I first heard about them through their documentary, *Minimalism*, which follows them on their book tour for *Everything That Remains*. I decided to read the book due to a passage Joshua reads in the documentary, which I'll include below; the passage made me think of *Fight Club*, on of my favorite movies. *Everything That Remains* details Joshua's experiences and sheds light on his decision to become a minimalist, with his best friend, Ryan, relegated to a section at the end of the book containing a list of 100+ footnotes, sharing some of his thoughts on their journey to minimalism.

### Minimalism
> My mother's death still hangs in the air around me, and now, during the same month, my six-year marriage is ending. Shit. Looking around, it's hard to determine which way is up. But even while Rome is burning, there's somehow still time for shopping at IKEA. Social imperatives are a merciless bitch. Everyone is attempting to buy what no one can sell. See, when I moved out of the house earlier this week, trawling my many personal belongings in large bins and boxes and fifty-gallon garbage bags, my first inclination was, of course, to purchase the things I still "needed" for my new place. You know, the basics: food, hygiene products, a shower curtain, towels, a bed, and umm... oh. I need a couch and a matching leather chair and a love seat and a lamp and a desk and a desk chair and another lamp for over there, and, oh yeah don't forget the sideboard that matches the desk and a dresser for the bedroom and oh i need a coffee table and a couple end tables and a TV-stand for the TV i still need to buy, and don't these look nice, whadda you call 'em, throat pillows? Oh, throw pillows. Well that makes more sense. And now that I think about it I'm going to want my apartment to be "my style", you know: my own motif, so I need certain decoratives to spruce up the decor, but wait, what is my style exactly, and do these stainless-steel picture frames embody that particular style? Does this replica Matisse sketch accurately capture my edgy-but-professional vibe? Exactly how "edgy" am I? What espresso maker defines me as a man? Does the fact that I'm even asking these questions mean I lack the dangling brass pendulum that'd make me a "man's man"? How many plates/cups/bowls/spoons should a man own? I guess I need a dining room table too, right? And a rug for the entryway and bathroom rugs (bath mats?) and what about that one thing, that thing that's like a rug but longer? Yeah, a runner; I need one of those, and I'm also going to need...

> Understand, every moth is drawn to light, even when that light is a flame, hot and burning, flickering, the fire tantalizing the drab creature with its blueish-white illumination. But when the moth flies too close to the flame, we all know what happens: it gets burned, incinerated by the very things that drew it near. For decades now, I have played the role of the moth, lured by the flame of consumerism, pop culture's beautiful conflagration, a firestorm of lust and greed and wanting, a haunting desire to consume that which cannot be consumed, to be fulfilled by that which can never be fulfilling. A vacant proposition, leaving me empty inside, which further fuels my desire to consume. Accepting the flame for what it is, then, is important: it is necessary and beautiful and, most of all, dangerous. Realizing this, becoming aware of the danger, is difficult to do. But this is how we wake up.


### What do you do?
> What do you do? In reality, it's such a broad inquiry that any answer would suffice. What do I do? I do a lot of things: I drink water. I eat food. I write words sloppily onto little yellow legal pads. Once you scrape away its cheap gold-plating, however, we find  a series of noxious inquisitions lurking beneath the surface. Sadly, what we're actually asking when we posit this question, albeit unknowingly, is: How do you earn a paycheck? How much money do you make? What is your socioeconomic status? And based on that status, where do I fall on the socioeconomic ladder compared to you? Am i a rung above you? Below you? How should I judge you? Are you even worth my time?


### How to improve
Donald Ray Pollock Millburn's impression of his rural Midwestern twang
> There's one secret that's improved my writin' more than anything else. It's so simple it seems dumb to even talk 'bout. But the truth is, well, it has really improved my writin'. My secret is this: I sit in a chair for two hours a day, every day. Even if you don't write, hell even when you don't wanna write, plant your ass in the chair e'ery day for a couple of hours. Over time, the words will come. Make sure you don't have no distractions neither. Just sit in that chair- no Internets, no TV, no radio, no stupid damn phones and text messaging. If you're really passionate about writin', you'll do it.

### Summary
